# Pizza-Sales-Project 🍕🍕🍕🍕
Welcome to my Pizza  Analysis Project! This project aims to uncover many analysis from a pizza dataset like, the average Pizza sales determined by specific days, Hours, Sizes, Categories and other factors, showcasing the income and revenue generated by the type of pizzas and top sellers.

## Project Description
 In this project, I used Excel, Power BI, Python and SQL to perform decriptive, predictive and insightful analysis on the dataset. During the course of this project, I had the following questions in mind;
- Busiest time, day and months for the Pizza shop.
- What Pizza categories and size tends to make the most sales?
- What pizza options and toppings are the best and worst sellers?

## Methodology
- This project database was managed and the data was extracted using Microsoft SQL Server. 
- Excel and python pandas was used to clean the data and handle data modelling. 
- Advanced Excel and power bi dashboards was created to visualize and present insights.
- 
## Data Source
The data for this project was gotten from Kaggle [Pizza Sales Project](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shilongzhuang/pizza-sales).

### Contents
This pizza sales dataset make up 12 relevant features:

- order_id: Unique identifier for each order placed by a table
- order_details_id: Unique identifier for each pizza placed within each order (pizzas of the same type and size are kept in the same row, and the quantity increases)
- pizza_id: Unique key identifier that ties the pizza ordered to its details, like size and price
- quantity: Quantity ordered for each pizza of the same type and size
- order_date: Date the order was placed (entered into the system prior to cooking & serving)
- order_time: Time the order was placed (entered into the system prior to cooking & serving)
- unit_price: Price of the pizza in USD
- total_price: unit_price * quantity
- pizza_size: Size of the pizza (Small, Medium, Large, X Large, or XX Large)
- pizza_type: Unique key identifier that ties the pizza ordered to its details, like size and price
- pizza_ingredients: ingredients used in the pizza as shown in the menu (they all include Mozzarella Cheese, even if not specified; and they all include Tomato Sauce, unless another sauce is specified)
- pizza_name: Name of the pizza as shown in the menu

## Conclusion

In conclusion, the analysis of this Pizza sales data provided valuable insights into the types of pizzas sold, total sales volume, revenue generation, popular pizza categories, average order value, and trends in orders by day, month, hour, and quarter. These findings can assist the Pizza shop in understanding customer preferences, optimizing their menu, and devising effective marketing and sales strategies.
